Add How to Connect TiDB Cloud to Metabase (#758)
pingcap/blog: how-to-connect-tidb-cloud-to-metabase.md

categories: ['Product']
image: /images/blog/how-to-connect-tidb-cloud-to-metabase.jpg
---

**Author:** [Phoebe He](https://github.com/phxwhe) (Content Developer at PingCAP)

**Editors:** [Calvin Weng](https://github.com/dcalvin), [Caitin Chen](https://github.com/caitinchen)

![How to connect TiDB Cloud to Metabase](media/how-to-connect-tidb-cloud-to-metabase.jpg)

## Overview

[TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/public-preview) is a fully-managed Database-as-a-Service (DBaaS) that brings everything great about TiDB to your cloud and lets you focus on your applications, not the complexities of your database.

In this 15-minute tutorial, you will learn how to connect TiDB Cloud to [Metabase](https://www.metabase.com/), an open source business intelligence (BI) tool. We will be using Metabase to build a BI dashboard and gain analytical insights using sample data from Capital Bikeshare (data released under the Capital Bikeshare Data License Agreement).

## Before you begin

* Create a TiDB Cloud cluster and import the Capital Bikeshare sample data following the [TiDB Cloud Quick Start Guide](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/public-preview/tidb-cloud-quickstart).

> * Install Metabase by following these [instructions](https://www.metabase.com/docs/latest/operations-guide/installing-metabase.html). You’ll have the option of installing it on premise or in the cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
* Install Metabase by following these [instructions](https://www.metabase.com/docs/latest/operations-guide/installing-metabase.html). You'll have the option of installing it on premise or in the cloud.
```

## Get TiDB Cluster IP address

1. Go to [https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) and sign in to your cluster.

2. On the TiDB Cloud console, click **Connect** on the upper right of the pane.

    The **Connect to TiDB** dialog displays.

3. Create the traffic filter for the cluster.

    1. Depending on how you use Metabase, select a traffic filter from the following options:

        * If you are using an on-prem version of Metabase, click **Add Your Current IP Address**. Your IP Address will be automatically populated.
        * If you are using Metabase on a cloud platform,  click **Allow Access from Anywhere.**

    2. Click **Create Filter**.

4. Take note of the TiDB Cloud IP address, listed between the **-h** parameter and **-P** parameter, as you will use it at a later step. For example: `mysql -u root -h tidb.xxx.xxxxx.us-west-2.prod.aws.tidbcloud.com -P 4000 -p`

## Connect TiDB Cloud to Metabase

> 1. Start the Metabase application and click **Let’s get started**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Start the Metabase application and click **Let's get started**.
```

>     ![Click Let’s get started](media/click-lets-get-started.jpg)

Author: ```suggestion
    ![Click Let's get started](media/click-lets-get-started.jpg)
```
